Doc: multiple control planes using revisions and discoverySelectors (#12415)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/setup/install/multiple-controlplanes/index.md

    link="single-cluster-multiple-istiods.svg"
    caption="Multiple control planes in Single Cluster"
    >}}

Using `discoverySelectors`, you can scope Kubernetes resources in a cluster to specific namespaces managed by an Istio control plane. This includes the Istio custom resources (e.g., Gateway, VirtualService, DestinationRule, etc.) used to configure the mesh. Furthermore, `discoverySelectors` can be used to configure which namespaces should include the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map for a particular Istio control plane. Together, these functions allow mesh operators to specify the namespaces for a given control plane, enabling soft multi-tenancy for multiple meshes based on the boundary of one or more namespaces. This guide uses `discoverySelectors`, along with the revisions capability of Istio, to demonstrate how two meshes can be deployed on a single cluster, each working with a properly scoped subset of the cluster's resources.

## Before you begin

This guide requires that you have a Kubernetes cluster with any of the
[supported Kubernetes versions:](/docs/releases/supported-releases#support-status-of-istio-releases) {{< supported_kubernetes_versions >}}.

> This cluster will host two control planes installed in two different system namespaces. The mesh application workloads will run in multiple application-specific namespaces, each namespace associated with one or the other control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This cluster will host two control planes installed in two different system namespaces. The mesh application workloads will run in multiple application-specific namespaces, each namespace associated with one or the other control plane based on revision and discovery selector configurations.
```

## Cluster configuration

### Deploying multiple control planes

> Deploying multiple Istio control planes can be achieved by specifying a distinct system namespace for each control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying multiple Istio control planes on a single cluster can be achieved by using different system namespaces for each control plane.
```

> Istio revisions and `discoverySelectors` features can be used together with this, to provide proper resource scoping for workloads
> in this deployment model. For making use of the complete resource scoping, the feature flag `ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING` has to be set to true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio revisions and `discoverySelectors` are then used to scope the resources and workloads that are managed by each control plane.

{{< warning >}}
By default, Istio only uses `discoverySelectors` to scope workload endpoints. To enable full resource scoping, including configuration resources, the feature flag `ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING` must be set to true.
{{< /warning >}}
```

> 1. Create the first system namespace and deploy istiod in the custom system namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the first system namespace, `usergroup-1`, and deploy istiod in it.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns usergroup-1
    $ kubectl label ns usergroup-1 usergroup=usergroup-1
    $ istioctl install --set namespace=usergroup-1 --set values.global.istioNamespace=usergroup-1 --set revision=usergroup-1 --set values.pilot.env.ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING=true --skip-confirmation -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    metadata:
      namespace: usergroup-1
    spec:
    # You may override parts of meshconfig by uncommenting the following lines.
      meshConfig:
        discoverySelectors:
          - matchLabels:
              usergroup: usergroup-1
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Create the second system namespace and deploy istiod in the custom system namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the second system namespace, `usergroup-2` and deploy istiod in it.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get validatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                      WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-validator-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   1          18m
    istio-validator-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   1          18m
    istiod-default-validator                  1          18m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                             WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-revision-tag-default-usergroup-1           4          18m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   2          19m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   2          18m
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify Multiple Control Plane Creation

1. Check the labels on the system namespaces per user group

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl get ns --show-labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl get ns usergroup-1 usergroup2 --show-labels
```

    NAME              STATUS   AGE     LABELS
    usergroup-1       Active   13m     kubernetes.io/metadata.name=usergroup-1,usergroup=usergroup-1
    usergroup-2       Active   12m     kubernetes.io/metadata.name=usergroup-2,usergroup=usergroup-2
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify the namespaces in which the control planes are deployed

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
>     NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS         AGE
>     usergroup-1   istio-ingressgateway-8df594958-6t7x6     1/1     Running   0                12m
>     usergroup-1   istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6      1/1     Running   0                12m
>     usergroup-2   istio-ingressgateway-7bc5b4c97d-bvsvg    1/1     Running   0                11m
>     usergroup-2   istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9      1/1     Running   0                12m

Reviewer: The `--all-namespaces` options will display extra stuff, if the user has anything else running on the cluster. I would just call kubectl get pods for usergroup-1 and usergroup-2.

Also, if you take my other suggestion to use the minimal profile when installing the control planes, there will be no ingressgateway pods.

```suggestion
    $ kubectl get pods -n usergroup-1
    NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS         AGE
    usergroup-1   istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6      1/1     Running   0                12m
    {{< /text >}}
    
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n usergroup-2
    NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS         AGE
    usergroup-2   istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9      1/1     Running   0                12m
```

    $ kubectl -n app-ns-2 apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    $ kubectl -n app-ns-3 apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
    $ kubectl -n app-ns-3 apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Wait a few seconds for the `httpbin` and `sleep` pods to be running with sidecars injected:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-1
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-zc2v4   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-fml7c    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-2
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-sd9ln   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sz728    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-3
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-8ll27   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sg4tq    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify the application to control plane mapping

> Now that the applications are deployed, let us confirm if the application workloads are managed by the respective control plane using `istioctl ps` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the applications are deployed, you can use the `istioctl ps` command to confirm that the application workloads are managed by their respective control plane, i.e., `app-ns-1` is managed by `usergroup-1`, `app-ns-2` and `app-ns-3` are managed by `usergroup-2`.
```

---
title: Install Multiple Istio Control Planes in a Single Cluster
description: Install multiple Istio control planes in a single cluster using revisions and discoverySelectors.
weight: 55
keywords: [multiple,control,istiod,local]
owner: istio/wg-environments-maintainers
test: yes
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

This guide walks you through the process of installing multiple Istio control planes within a single cluster and

> then a way to scope workloads to specific control planes. For this guide, [the deployment model](/docs/ops/deployment/deployment-models/#control-plane-models)

Reviewer: Referencing the deployment model doc here is confusing, since it doesn't mention anything about the model you're using, i.e., you have one cluster with two meshes inside it. The control plane models in the doc all have one mesh (blue dashed-line box) at the outside, with the clusters (gold solid-line boxes) inside. You're describing a deployment that has the gold solid-line box at the outside with two single control plane meshes (blue boxes) inside of it. I would suggest adding such a diagram in the deployment doc, or don't reference it at all.

Author: Removed

will have a single Kubernetes control plane with multiple Istio control planes and multiple meshes.
The separation between the meshes is provided by Kubernetes namespaces and RBAC.

{{< image width="80%"

>     link="single-cluster-multiple-istiods.svg"

Reviewer: Nit: the horizontal blue dashed lines look pretty sloppy in this diagram, because they don't line up.

Author: Updated the document, thanks for the help :)

Reviewer: One more observation is that there is a lot of blank space above and below the diagram in the doc preview. You can eliminate it by cropping away the excess canvas in the google diagram before generating the svg.

Author: Have tried to crop the image

    caption="Multiple control planes in Single Cluster"
    >}}

> With `discoverySelectors` you can not only scope the Kubernetes resources to specific namespaces managed by Istio control plane, but also scope the Istio custom resources such as Gateway, VirtualService, DestinationRule, etc. Furthermore, you can leverage `discoverySelectors` to configure the Istio control plane on which namespaces you want the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map. These enhancements are very useful if you want to specify the allowed mesh namespaces for a given control plane as mesh operators, or enable soft multi-tenancy for your mesh based on the boundary of one or more namespaces. This guide uses `discoverySelectors` along with the revisions capability of Istio to demonstrate how multiple control planes can be deployed to work with properly scoped resources per control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `discoverySelectors`, you can scope Kubernetes resources in a cluster to specific namespaces managed by an Istio control plane. This includes the Istio custom resources (e.g., Gateway, VirtualService, DestinationRule, etc.) used to configure the mesh. Furthermore, `discoverySelectors` can be used to configure which namespaces should include the `istio-ca-root-cert` config map of a particular Istio control plane. Together, these functions allow mesh operators to specify the namespaces for a given control plane, enabling soft multi-tenancy for multiple meshes based on the boundary of one or more namespaces. This guide uses `discoverySelectors`, along with the revisions capability of Istio, to demonstrate how two meshes can be deployed on a single cluster, each working with a properly scoped subset of the cluster's resources.
```

## Before you begin

This guide requires that you have a Kubernetes cluster with any of the
[supported Kubernetes versions:](/docs/releases/supported-releases#support-status-of-istio-releases) {{< supported_kubernetes_versions >}}.

This cluster will host two control planes installed in two different system namespaces.

> The mesh application workloads will run in application specific namespaces and can be associated to their control planes by
> proper configuration using revisions and discovery selectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mesh application workloads will run in multiple application-specific namespaces, each namespace associated with one or the other control plane using revision and discovery selector configurations.
```

---
title: Install Multiple Istio Control Planes in a Single Cluster
description: Install multiple Istio control planes in a single cluster using revisions and discoverySelectors.
weight: 55
keywords: [multiple,control,istiod,local]
owner: istio/wg-environments-maintainers
test: yes
---

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

This guide walks you through the process of installing multiple Istio control planes within a single cluster and then a way to scope workloads to specific control planes. For this guide, the deployment model will have a single Kubernetes control plane with multiple Istio control planes and multiple meshes. The separation between the meshes is provided by Kubernetes namespaces and RBAC.

{{< image width="90%"
    link="single-cluster-multiple-istiods.svg"

>     caption="Multiple control planes in Single Cluster"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    caption="Multiple meshes in a single cluster"
```

## Before you begin

This guide requires that you have a Kubernetes cluster with any of the
[supported Kubernetes versions:](/docs/releases/supported-releases#support-status-of-istio-releases) {{< supported_kubernetes_versions >}}.

This cluster will host two control planes installed in two different system namespaces. The mesh application workloads will run in multiple application-specific namespaces, each namespace associated with one or the other control plane based on revision and discovery selector configurations.

## Cluster configuration

### Deploying multiple control planes

Deploying multiple Istio control planes on a single cluster can be achieved by using different system namespaces for each control plane.
Istio revisions and `discoverySelectors` are then used to scope the resources and workloads that are managed by each control plane.
{{< warning >}}
By default, Istio only uses `discoverySelectors` to scope workload endpoints. To enable full resource scoping, including configuration resources, the feature flag `ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING` must be set to true.
{{< /warning >}}

> 1. Create the first system namespace, `usergroup-1`, and deploy istiod in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the first system namespace, `usergroup-1`, and deploy istiod in it:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns usergroup-1
    $ kubectl label ns usergroup-1 usergroup=usergroup-1
    $ istioctl install -y -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    metadata:
      namespace: usergroup-1
    spec:
      profile: minimal
      revision: usergroup-1
      meshConfig:
        discoverySelectors:
          - matchLabels:
              usergroup: usergroup-1
      values:
        global:
          istioNamespace: usergroup-1
        pilot:
          env:
            ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING: true
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Create the second system namespace, `usergroup-2`, and deploy istiod in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the second system namespace, `usergroup-2`, and deploy istiod in it:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns usergroup-2
    $ kubectl label ns usergroup-2 usergroup=usergroup-2
    $ istioctl install -y -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    metadata:
      namespace: usergroup-2
    spec:
      profile: minimal
      revision: usergroup-2
      meshConfig:
        discoverySelectors:
          - matchLabels:
              usergroup: usergroup-2
      values:
        global:
          istioNamespace: usergroup-2
        pilot:
          env:
            ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING: true
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get validatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                      WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-validator-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   1          18m
    istio-validator-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   1          18m
    istiod-default-validator                  1          18m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                             WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-revision-tag-default-usergroup-1           4          18m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   2          19m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   2          18m
    {{< /text >}}

> ### Verify Multiple Control Plane Creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verify the multiple control plane creation
```

> 1. Check the labels on the system namespaces per user group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the labels on the system namespaces for each control plane:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get ns usergroup-1 usergroup2 --show-labels
    NAME              STATUS   AGE     LABELS
    usergroup-1       Active   13m     kubernetes.io/metadata.name=usergroup-1,usergroup=usergroup-1
    usergroup-2       Active   12m     kubernetes.io/metadata.name=usergroup-2,usergroup=usergroup-2
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify the namespaces in which the control planes are deployed

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n usergroup-1
    NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS         AGE
    usergroup-1   istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6      1/1     Running   0                12m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n usergroup-2
    NAMESPACE     NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS         AGE
    usergroup-2   istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9      1/1     Running   0                12m
    {{< /text >}}

>     You will notice that one istiod deployment per usergroup is created in the specified namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You will notice that one istiod deployment per usergroup is created in the specified namespaces.

1. Run the following commands to list the installed webhooks:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get validatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                      WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-validator-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   1          18m
    istio-validator-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   1          18m
    istiod-default-validator                  1          18m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfiguration
    NAME                                             WEBHOOKS   AGE
    istio-revision-tag-default-usergroup-1           4          18m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-1-usergroup-1   2          19m
    istio-sidecar-injector-usergroup-2-usergroup-2   2          18m
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that the output includes `istiod-default-validator` and `istio-revision-tag-default-usergroup-1`, which are the default webhook configurations used for handling requests coming from resources which are not associated with any revision. In a fully scoped environment where every control plane is associated with its resources through proper namespace labeling, there is no need for these default webhook configurations. They will never be invoked.
```

Author: This is taken care, but still shows up as not resolved, not sure why.

### Deploy application workloads per usergroup

> 1.  Create three application namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create three application namespaces:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns app-ns-1
    $ kubectl create ns app-ns-2
    $ kubectl create ns app-ns-3
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Associate the namespaces with their respective control planes through proper namespace labeling. Here the labeling is done
>     according to the diagram shown in the beginning of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Label each namespace to associate them with their respective control planes:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label ns app-ns-1 usergroup=usergroup-1 istio.io/rev=usergroup-1
    $ kubectl label ns app-ns-2 usergroup=usergroup-2 istio.io/rev=usergroup-2
    $ kubectl label ns app-ns-3 usergroup=usergroup-2 istio.io/rev=usergroup-2
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Deploy one `sleep` and `httpbin` application per namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Deploy one `sleep` and `httpbin` application per namespace:
```

    $ kubectl -n app-ns-2 apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    $ kubectl -n app-ns-3 apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
    $ kubectl -n app-ns-3 apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Wait a few seconds for the `httpbin` and `sleep` pods to be running with sidecars injected:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-1
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-zc2v4   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-fml7c    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-2
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-sd9ln   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sz728    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-3
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-8ll27   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sg4tq    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify the application to control plane mapping

> Now that the applications are deployed, you can use the `istioctl ps` command to confirm that the application workloads are managed by their respective control plane, i.e., `app-ns-1` is managed by `usergroup-1`, `app-ns-2` and `app-ns-3` are managed by `usergroup-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the applications are deployed, you can use the `istioctl ps` command to confirm that the application workloads are managed by their respective control plane, i.e., `app-ns-1` is managed by `usergroup-1`, `app-ns-2` and `app-ns-3` are managed by `usergroup-2`:
```

    1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-xzgfm.app-ns-2                      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
    1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    istio-ingressgateway-7bc5b4c97d-bvsvg.usergroup-2     Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     NOT SENT     NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
    1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    sleep-78ff5975c6-fthmt.app-ns-2                       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
    1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    sleep-78ff5975c6-nxtth.app-ns-3                       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
    1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify the application connectivity is ONLY within the respective usergroup

> 1.  Send a request from the `sleep` pod in `app-ns-1` in `usergroup-1` to the `httpbin` service in `app-ns-2` in `usergroup-2`, the communication should fail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Send a request from the `sleep` pod in `app-ns-1` in `usergroup-1` to the `httpbin` service in `app-ns-2` in `usergroup-2`. The communication should fail:
```

    HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable
    content-length: 95
    content-type: text/plain
    date: Sat, 24 Dec 2022 06:54:54 GMT
    server: envoy
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a request from the `sleep` pod in `app-ns-2` in `usergroup-2` to the `httpbin` service in `app-ns-3` in `usergroup-2`, the communication should work:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n app-ns-2 exec "$(kubectl -n app-ns-2 get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -- curl -sIL http://httpbin.app-ns-3.svc.cluster.local:8000
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    server: envoy
    date: Thu, 22 Dec 2022 15:01:36 GMT
    content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    content-length: 9593
    access-control-allow-origin: *
    access-control-allow-credentials: true
    x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 3
    {{< /text >}}

## Cleanup

1.  Clean up the first usergroup:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl uninstall --revision usergroup-1
    $ kubectl delete ns app-ns-1 usergroup-1
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Clean up the second usergroup:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl uninstall --revision usergroup-2
    $ kubectl delete ns app-ns-2 app-ns-3 usergroup-2
    {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}

> Cluster Administrator has to make sure that the Mesh Administrator DO NOT have the permission to invoke global `istioctl uninstall --purge`
> as that will uninstall all the control planes in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Cluster Administrator must make sure that Mesh Administrators DO NOT have permission to invoke the global `istioctl uninstall --purge` command,
because that would uninstall all control planes in the cluster.
```

    kind: IstioOperator
    metadata:
      namespace: usergroup-2
    spec:
      profile: minimal
      revision: usergroup-2
      meshConfig:
        discoverySelectors:
          - matchLabels:
              usergroup: usergroup-2
      values:
        global:
          istioNamespace: usergroup-2
        pilot:
          env:
            ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING: true
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-1` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: PeerAuthentication
    metadata:
      name: "usergroup-1-peerauth"
      namespace: "usergroup-1"
    spec:
      mtls:
        mode: STRICT
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy a policy for workloads in the `usergroup-2` namespace to only accept mutual TLS traffic:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: PeerAuthentication
    metadata:
      name: "usergroup-2-peerauth"
      namespace: "usergroup-2"
    spec:
      mtls:
        mode: STRICT
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> {{< warning >}}
> In a fully scoped environment where each control plane is associated with its resources through proper namespace labeling, there is no need for the default webhook
> configurations provided by Istio. However it is the responsibility of the Mesh Administrator to make sure no requests bypass the validation step.
> {{< /warning >}}
> 

Reviewer: Remove this warning
```suggestion
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-1
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-zc2v4   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-fml7c    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-2
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-sd9ln   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sz728    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods -n app-ns-3
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-8ll27   2/2     Running   0          115m
    sleep-78ff5975c6-sg4tq    2/2     Running   0          115m
    {{< /text >}}

### Verify the application to control plane mapping

Now that the applications are deployed, you can use the `istioctl ps` command to confirm that the application workloads are managed by their respective control plane, i.e., `app-ns-1` is managed by `usergroup-1`, `app-ns-2` and `app-ns-3` are managed by `usergroup-2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl ps -i usergroup-1

>     NAME                                                 CLUSTER        CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ECDS         ISTIOD                                  VERSION
>     httpbin-9dbd644c7-hccpf.app-ns-1                     Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT     istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     istio-ingressgateway-8df594958-6t7x6.usergroup-1     Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     NOT SENT     NOT SENT     istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     sleep-78ff5975c6-9zb77.app-ns-1                      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT     istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    NAME                                 CLUSTER        CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ECDS         ISTIOD                                  VERSION
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-hccpf.app-ns-1     Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT     istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    sleep-78ff5975c6-9zb77.app-ns-1      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT     istiod-usergroup-1-5ccc849b5f-wnqd6     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
```

    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl ps -i usergroup-2

>     NAME                                                  CLUSTER        CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ECDS        ISTIOD                                  VERSION
>     httpbin-9dbd644c7-vvcqj.app-ns-3                      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     httpbin-9dbd644c7-xzgfm.app-ns-2                      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     istio-ingressgateway-7bc5b4c97d-bvsvg.usergroup-2     Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     NOT SENT     NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     sleep-78ff5975c6-fthmt.app-ns-2                       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
>     sleep-78ff5975c6-nxtth.app-ns-3                       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9
>     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    NAME                                  CLUSTER        CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ECDS        ISTIOD                                  VERSION
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-vvcqj.app-ns-3      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    httpbin-9dbd644c7-xzgfm.app-ns-2      Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    sleep-78ff5975c6-fthmt.app-ns-2       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
    sleep-78ff5975c6-nxtth.app-ns-3       Kubernetes     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       NOT SENT    istiod-usergroup-2-658d6458f7-slpd9     1.17-alpha.f5212a6f7df61fd8156f3585154bed2f003c4117
```
